INSULIN INJECTION KNOW-HOW
Learning how to inject insulin
American Association of Diabetes Educators
Supported by BD Diabetes Care

Congratulations for making the move to insulin therapy. It will not be long before you start enjoying better blood sugar control, more energy, and a host of other benefits. The prospect of taking insulin injections may have you feeling a bit anxious. That is OK. Just about everyone feels that way. Your anxiety will vanish soon enough. Here are valuable facts and tips to help make your transition to insulin smooth and easy.

Ways to Give Insulin
Because insulin is broken down by digestive enzymes, it cannot be taken in pill form. Instead, it is delivered with a syringe into the layer of fat below the skin, also called the subcutaneous tissue. The layer of fat on the stomach, hips, thighs, buttocks, and backs of the arms are common sites for injecting insulin. From there, the insulin absorbs into the bloodstream where it circulates to cells throughout the body.

The good news about delivering insulin into the layer of fat below the skin is that there are no nerve endings in this area, so injections are usually painless. There are a number of options for administering insulin.

Syringes
Disposable plastic insulin syringes are still widely used, but the popularity of pens and pumps is growing. Syringes vary in terms of how much insulin they hold as well as the length and thickness of the needle. Syringes can be used to deliver insulin directly into the layer of fat below the skin, or they can inject insulin into a temporary port that sits on the skin. The port, changed every 2-3 days, has a small flexible plastic tube below the skin. A needle is used to place the tube, so only one needle stick is required every 2-3 days when a port is used.

Pens
Insulin pens are about the size and shape of a writing pen. They contain insulin and have a dial for setting the dose. A disposable pen needle is attached to the end before injecting. Pen needles are available in a variety of lengths and thicknesses. Pens reduce medical waste and are considered by many people to be more convenient, accurate, and easy to use than syringes.

Pumps
Insulin pumps are electronic devices worn continuously. They deliver insulin into the fat layer below the skin through a flexible plastic tube. Pumps are popular among people who need multiple daily injections. Safe use requires education and training, and pumps can be relatively expensive. They are not typically used by people new to insulin, but may be an option with more experience.

Choosing an Injection Device
The choice between syringes and pens is personal. If possible, sample both at your healthcare provider's office. Speak with your healthcare provider and check with your health insurance plan to learn what is covered.

Most pens hold 300 units of insulin and allow delivery of up to 60 to 80 units at a time. Prefilled disposable pens deliver in single-unit increments. Durable pens use replaceable insulin cartridges and may deliver insulin in 1/2-unit increments. Pens can deliver long-acting, rapid-acting, and premixed insulin formulations.

Disposable syringes hold up to 100 units per injection. If using syringes, choose one that holds enough for your largest dose with a little room to spare. Syringe markings allow dosing in 2-unit, 1-unit, or 1/2-unit increments.

Needle length and thickness vary. Syringe and pen needles as short as 4 mm and as long as 12.7 mm are available. Thickness is measured in gauge; the higher the gauge, the thinner the needle. In general, it is best to use the shortest, thinnest needles available. Even if overweight or obese, a needle longer than 6 mm is usually not needed. Needles that are too long may cause painful intramuscular injections and faster-than-intended insulin absorption.

To Draw One Type of Insulin into a Syringe
1. Gather supplies: insulin vial and a fresh syringe. Check the vial for the right kind of insulin, no clumps or particles, and no expiration.
2. Gently stir intermediate or premixed insulin by rolling the bottle between your palms. Clear fast-acting or long-acting insulin generally does not need mixing.
3. Prepare the bottle. If new, remove the cap. Wiping the top with alcohol is not necessary as long as it is clean.
4. Pull air into the syringe equal to your insulin dose.
5. Inject air into the vial through the rubber stopper. This helps maintain pressure and makes insulin easier to draw up.
6. Draw insulin into the syringe by turning the vial and syringe upside down and pulling the plunger to the desired amount.
7. Check for air bubbles. Push air out and draw back to the correct dose if needed.
8. Remove the needle from the bottle and avoid letting it touch anything before injection.

Injection Technique
Technique is everything when it comes to making insulin injections easy.