Protein Snacks
Protein snacks are the perfect way to fill up just enough and give us longer-lasting energy than the usual, carb-heavy options. Here are 31 of our favorite protein-packed snacks – one for every day of the month.
1. Cottage-Style Fruit
Top ½ cup cottage cheese with ½ cup of your favorite fruit. Why not try some super
foods? Bananas, mixed berries, and melon are some favorites.
2. Beef or Turkey Jerky
Be careful to avoid sodium- and sugar-filled brands, but low-sodium, natural or lightly flavored option are a great source of protein. And this chewy snack is super portable and
keeps fresh for months when packed properly. A 1 oz. serving (sive or most singleserving packs) contains about 9 grams of protein.
3. Mixed Nuts or Trail Mix
Mixed nuts are an easy way to get a delicious dose of protein in a convenient, shelf-stable
package. Try a mixed bunch of variety and a combo with dried fruit for some added
sweetness.
4. Pumpkin Seeds
Those orange gourds aren’t just for Halloween. The pumpkin insides scooped out to
make room for spooky faces can actually make a healthy little snack once they’re
washed, dried, and nicely roasted. Just ½ cup of pumpkin seeds has about 14 grams of
protein – the perfect pre-workout snack.
5. Hard-Boiled Egg
Inexpensive and loaded with nutrients, eggs are one of the best ways to get a healthy dose
of protein. Try hard-boiling and pre-peeling a dozen at the start of the week and throw
one in a small Tupperware container each day for an easy on-the-go snack. (Feeling extra
famished? Slice the egg and place it on a piece of whole-wheat bread).
6. Dell Rollup
Top 2 slices of low-sodium deli meat (turkey, chicken, roast beef work great) with 1 slice
of low-fat cheese and a shake of pepper. Add a slice of tomato or some lettuce for extra
veggie points.
7. Nut Butter Boat
Any vehicle for nut butter (almond, peanut, or cashew for example) Try loading a few
celery sticks with 1 tablespoon of any nut better topped with a few whole almonds or
raisins. If you’re not a fan of celery, try scooping out the middle of an apple and fill it
with a nut buttery surprise.
8. Mini Bean-and Cheese Quesadilla
It might take an extra minute to prep but combining these two high-protein treats is worth
it. Fold ½ cup black beans, 1 tablespoon salsa, and 1 slice cheddar cheese in a small soft
tortilla. Cook in a dry nonstick pan until cheese is melted and tortilla is lightly browned.
Wrap in foil and stick in a plastic baggie for easy transport.
9. Shake It Up
The combinations are endless with protein shakes. The “Protein Creamsicle” – 1 scoop
vanilla whey protein powder, 1 cup orange juice, and 1 cup ice blended until smooth. The
“Star-buffs Shake” – 1 cup iced coffee (with ice) and 1 scoop chocolate whey protein
blended.
10. KIND Bar
Their classic varieties are a great source of protein from the all-nut base (coming in at
around 5 grams per bar), but for an even higher dose of the good stuff, try Kind Plus
varieties with added protein. (ex: Peanut Butter Dark Chocolate + Protein – one bar has 7
grams)
11. Easy Oatmeal Raisin Cookie
In a microwave-safe bowl (or mug), mix ¼ cup oats, 1 teaspoon brown sugar, 1 teaspoon
brown sugar, 1 tablespoon flour (of your choice), 1 egg white, ¼ teaspoon vanilla
extract, ¼ teaspoon baking powder, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, and 1 tablespoon raisins.
Flatten mixture into bottom of bowl and microwave on high for 45 seconds. Cool, pop it
out of bowl and enjoy!
12. Tofu Sticks
This soybean-based protein bomb isn’t just for stir-fry and Asian takeout menus. When
sliced into sticks and baked, firm (and smoked) tofu can make a great snack food,
especially if it’s served with a side of homemade tomato or teriyaki dipping sauce – just
don’t overdo it.
13. Chunky Monkey Shake
Blend 1 medium banana, 1 tablespoon of peanut butter, and 1 cup of low-fate chocolate
milk with 1 cup of ice for a protein-packed pick-me-up.
14. Edamame Poppers
The only thing more fun than how much protein you can get from a serving of edamame
is getting to eat these little beans out of bright green pods. One cup of the pods offers
about 17 grams of protein. Buy them fresh and steam for about 6 minutes, or use the
precooked frozen variety and briefly microwave to defrost (about 2 minutes) before
chowing down.
15. Hummus Dippers
How’s this for an unconventional use of a travel coffee mug: put 2 tablespoons of a
favorite hummus in the bottom of the container. Stick a handful of vegetable sticks
(carrots, celery, and snow peas are great mix) vertically in the hummus, screw on the top
and throw in a purse or gym bag for an easy, on-the-go, super healthy snack.
16. Soy Milk Smoothie
While cow’s milk does have its nutritional benefits (calcium, vitamin A…), soy milk
wins in a few categories (vitamin D, iron) and they’re neatly comparable in terms of
protein. Try blending 1 cup of your favorite flavor of soy milk (vanilla, chocolate…) with
1 cup of frozen blueberries or raspberries (for added fiber and antioxidants).
17. Portable Cheese Platter
Make yourself a mini cheese plate with a reduced-fat cheese stick (or 2 slices of cheese),
2 whole-grain crackers and a few roasted almonds.
18. Banana Nutter
Top a rice cake (brown rice for extra fiber points) with 2 tablespoons of your favorite nut
better and half a banana, slice. Sprinkle with cinnamon for some extra healthy benefits.
19. Silver Dollar Protein Pancakes
Mix 4 egg whites, ½ cup of rolled oats, ½ cup of low-fat cottage cheese, ¼ teaspoon of
baking powder, and ½ teaspoon of pure vanilla extract. Cook on a preheated griddle
(medium low heat) until mixture bubbles, flip and cook for another 60 seconds. Top with
fresh berries or sliced banana.
20. Chocolate Milk
Low-fat chocolate milk is actually a great source of high-quality protein (especially postworkout). Try keeping a single-serving, shelf-stable box in your gym bag (or purse_ for
snack attack emergencies – just try to find one that’s also low in sugar (ex: Horizon
Dairy’s single-serve, low-fat chocolate milk boxes)
21. “Get Greek” Berry Parfait
Top ½ cup plain Greek Yogurt with ½ cup fresh berries and 1 tablespoon sliced roasted
almonds
22. Grape-and Cheese Sticks
Dice a ½-inch thick slice of cheddar cheese into squares (you should end up with about 6
small pieces, equaling about 1 oz.) and rinse 6 grapes. On 6 toothpicks, stack the grape
and cheese, and enjoy! Just 1 oz. of reduced-fat sharp cheddar offers 8 grams of protein
and the contrast with sweet grapes is super sophisticated (and delicious).
23. Almond Butter Toast Sticks
Toast (or bake) 2 slices of whole-grain bread, and cut into ½-inch strips. Place 2
tablespoons of almond butter (or another nut butter) in the bottom of a container with a
top, stick the toast sticks in vertically and sprinkle with cinnamon. Screw on the top and
head out the door.
24. A Little Lentil
Lentils are great protein-packed legumes that are easy to turn into super, shelf-stable
salads. 1 cup has a whopping 22 grams of protein in just 300 calories.
25. Perfect Little Parfait
Top ½ cup nonfat Greek yogurt with a handful of fruit (fresh or frozen) and a drizzle of
honey. Add 2 tablespoons of toasted oats for a protein-packed crunch.
26. Mini Black-Bean Mash Taco
Heat ½ cup of black beans in the microwave with 1 tablespoon of salsa. Mash with a fork
and fold it inside a small (4-6 inch) soft tortilla. Store in a small Tupperware container for
easy transport.
27. Gobble, Gobble
Slice on piece of whole-grain breads in half, lengthwise, and top with 2 slices of roasted
turkey, 1 slice of Swiss cheese, 1 lettuce leaf, 1 slice of tomato, 1 teaspoon of mustard,
and 1 teaspoon dried cranberries. This comforting combination packs about 14 grams of
protein.
28. Protein Bar
This one might sound obvious, but hear us out: it’s all about finding the right bar. That
means one that’s not weighed down with not-so-good extras like sugar, fat and calories
(some options can even be as bad as candy bars). Do some research to figure out which
type is right for you. There are high-protein and low-carb bars, meal replacement and
energy bars, or female-friendly options.
29. Overnights Choco-Oats
In a container with a secure lid, mix ½ cup oats, 1 cup non-dairy milk, 3 tablespoons
chocolate protein powder, and a handful of walnuts until well combined. Let sit in the
fridge overnight (or up to a few days). Need some extra sweetness? Add ½ a banana
(mashed).
30. Recovery Rice Crispies
News Flash: Protein powder ain’t just for shakes! Try these super-sweet protein-packed
treats (Recovery Rice Crispies from trainer Rog Law).
31. Blueberry Flax Microwave Muffins
Making muffins from scratch each morning is easier than you might think. Mix ¼ cup
quick-cooking oats, ¼ cup fresh or frozen blueberries, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 2
tablespoons ground flax, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 1 teaspoon of olive oil, 2 egg white and a
sprinkle of sugar (or other natural sweetener) in a microwave-safe Tupperware container.
Cook on high for 50-60 seconds. Let it cool, throw a top on it and enjoy
32. Glucerna Smart Shake (green top)